## Controllers and Views

### What is _controllers_ about?
> If you aren't habituated with MVC architecture, [[try out to study it|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller]] to figure out what  about is MVC in theory and how software programming world use to do it.

#### How we use _controllers_:
We think about a _controller_ as a place specifically designed from your application (class) that realize some kind of job through actions (methods). It controls the data flow received from browser user and the destiny of these data. It's that what transfers data which could be useful in the [_views_](#what_is_views). If you aren't habituated with _MVC_ at this point it can seem a little complex and that this whole thing should involve too many logic difficulties, but the truth is that in practice it's very simple.

#### Example:
Let's suppose you have in your [_view_](#what_is_views) a button that when you click over it will reload the same page, but dispatching a message.

1. _Controller_ get this request that can be identified by a lot of ways, but let's suppose it's POST.
1. _Controller_ request the method `$this->addMsg("I'm a message", \SuitUp\Enum\MsgType::INFO)`. It will add a message to the `$layoutMessages` variable that can be recovered in the _layout_

```php
<?php
// File: ModuleDefault/Controllers/IndexController.php

namespace ModuleDefault\Controllers;

class IndexController extends AbstractController
{
    // This action is executed when you access
    // http://yoursite.dev/
    public function indexAction()
    {
        if ($this->isPost()) {
            $this->addMsg("I'm a message", \SuitUp\Enum\MsgType::INFO);
        }
    }
}
```

Realize that the role of the _controller_ is receive the request made by browser user and respond it according to the need.

#### How to create a _Controller_
For now you already know what **is** a _Controller_, let's understand what is the basic structure to create a new one.

1. Define the name you want to give to your new _Controller_ (let's say it will be **user**);
   - Don't forget that this name will be used on the URL, in this case `http://yoursite.dev/usuario/index` or just `http://yoursite.dev/usuario`;
1. Without any special characters, the name of the _controller_ must begin with one CAPITAL letter followed by lowercase characters and the namespace _`Controller`_ at the end;
1. In our example the _controller_ **user** will be _**UserController**_
1. This our _controller_ must be inserted in _Controllers_ folder inside the module choosen.
1. The name of the _controller_ **class** and **file** must to be identical, in our case the name of the file will be **ModuleDefault/Controllers/UserController.php**

Below you will see the minimum required content to the _controller_ file:

```php
<?php
// File: ModuleDefault/Controllers/UserController.php

namespace ModuleDefault\Controllers;

class UserController extends AbstractController
{
    public function indexAction()
    {
        // put your content here

        // To send content to the view
        $this->addViewVar(array(
            'variableName' => 'The content'
        ));
    }
}
```

> Realize that to _send_ a variable to the _view_ you just need to use the method `$this->addViewVar();`.

#### AbstractController
You must to realized in the examples above that the _controllers_ usually to inherit from _AbstractController_ class and may thougth this file is supplied by _SuitUp framework_, but it's no the truth. The truth is that this file must to be made by you **inside each module** and we sugest it should be made for turn your own life easier.

> The _AbstractController_ must to exist because with it you can personalize some methods which _SuitUp_ have no done exactally in according as you need for this your project or even for you can add some methods which will be useful and shared with all _controllers_ inside the module and with that making better reusability of your code. Because of this we say that **for a good application the _AbstractController_ is required!** Even don't being totaly needed that this file must to exist.

> We already mentioned this above, but maybe while reading this idea could have passed unnoticed, because of that we will say it again: **Must to exist one _AbstractController_ for each module in your application**. It will prevents edition of methods which have impact in several modules at the same time.

The idea is to create on this file methods that will be useful to be used in several locales on your system (at the same module). It will increase the productivity and you will not rewrite the same block of code several times.  
The _minimum_ structure to create an _AbstractController_ must to be:

```php
<?php
// File: ModuleDefault/Controllers/AbstractController.php

namespace ModuleDefault\Controllers;

abstract class AbstractController extends \SuitUp\Mvc\MvcAbstractController
{
    // Add here how many methods God touch in your heart to make your life better. =)
}
```

> You can open the file `MvcAbstractController.php` or use the function `get_class_methods($this)` to see which methods is already implemented in the instance.

> Before rewrite some method read [[this link|2.1 MvcAbstractController]] to understand the **workflow** of _SuitUp_ and avoid some headaches.

### <a name="what_is_views"></a>What are _views_?

Neither only from PHP a site lives, obviously will be needed show contents to the user and it will be made trough HTML (exception WebServices which return only preferably JSON). The _SuitUp_ relates each method from a _controller_ with a file `.phtml` automaticaly. How it can do that? Each module must to have a folder named `views` and inside it one folder for each _controller_ which must to contain a file for each _controller_ method. We will explain it a little better.

```properties
modules
|  ModuleDefault
|  ModuleAdmin
|  |  Controllers
|  |  |  AbstractController.php
|  |  |  UserController.php
|  |  views
|  |  |  user
|  |  |  |  index.phtml
|  |  |  |  edit.phtml
|  |  |  layout.phtml
.htaccess
composer.json
index.php
```
Do you remember our _controller_ **user**?

```php
<?php
// File: ModuleAdmin/Controllers/UserController.php

namespace ModuleAdmin\Controllers;

class UserController extends AbstractController
{
    /**
     * This method will be accessed by 'http://yoursite.dev/admin/user'
     */
    public function indexAction()
    {
        // Your content

        // Transfer content to the view
        $this->addViewVar(array(
            'yourVariable' => 'The content'
        ));
    }

    /**
     * This method will be accessed by 'http://seusite.dev/admin/user/edit'
     */
    public function editAction()
    {
        // Logic to edit user
    }
}
```

Did you noticed something different? Now the module used is _Admin_, it make URL change too. Each of these methods is related to one `.phtml` file that are:  
`ModuleAdmin/views/user/index.phtml`  
`ModuleAdmin/views/user/edit.phtml`

```html
<!-- File: ModuleAdmin/views/user/index.phtml -->
<div class="panel panel-primary">
    <div class="panel-heading"><i class="fa fa-bell"></i> Header</div>
    <div class="panel-body">

        <!-- Realize that this variable was sent by controller -->
        <?php echo $yourVariable; ?>

    </div>
</div>
```

Realize that is possible inside the _view_ to use `$yourVariable` that was sent by _controller_ through the method `$this->addViewVar();`

> Maybe you have noticed that this file, even being HTML, does not begin with traditional type, I mean, `<!DOCTYPE html>`. This is because the _view_ files contents are just the specific content for itself, everything that is repeated in all pages from your site used to be separated in only one file called [[layout. Click here to understand it better.|3. Layouts]].

### Previous: [[1.1 Default Constants]]
### Next: [[2.1 MvcAbstractController (en)]]
